.\" bib2html
.TH BIB2HTML L "14 August 1995"
.SH NAME
bib2html \- BibTeX bibliography to HTML converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bib2html
[
.B \-a
] [
.B \-c
] [
.B \-d
.I delimiter
] [
.B \-h
.I heading
] [
.B \-r
]
.B \-s
.I style
] [
.B \-t
] [
.B \-v
] [
.B \-3
]
.I sourcefile
[
.I htmlfile
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B bib2html
converts a bibtex-format bibliography file to HTML.  
.I sourcefile
may be either a BibTeX-format bibliography
.RB ( .bib )
file or a LaTeX-format
.RB ( .aux )
file.
.P
Since the
HTML-formatted bibliography will often be just part of a larger
HTML file,
.B bib2html
attempts to update the HTML file in place.  It does this
by searching
.I htmlfile
for two special strings, which delimit
the bibliography part of the file.
These strings are the HTML comments
.IP
<!-- BEGIN BIBLIOGRAPHY
.I delimiter
-->
.IP
<!-- END BIBLIOGRAPHY
.I delimiter
-->
.P
If these delimiters are found, the old bibliography between them is
replaced with the new bibliography.
Otherwise the new bibliography, with the appropriate delimiters,
is appended to the end of
.IR htmlfile ,
and it will be necessary to move it to the proper location by hand.
Note that it is possible for
.I htmlfile
to contain any number of bibliographies, and they may be updated
independently.
If no
.I htmlfile
is specified, the bibliography is written to standard output.
.P
The tag of each BibTeX bibliography entry is converted into a name
anchor (<A NAME="tag">) in
.IR htmlfile ,
and may be used to construct a link to this particular entry.
.SS Special Field Processing
.P
Several BibTeX fields are treated specially.  The filenames specified
in the
.BR postscript ,
.BR pdf ,
and
.B dvi
fields are relative to the
.I htmlfile
directory.  In addition,
.B bib2html
recognizes compressed or gzipped files
(those with filenames ending in
.BR .Z ,
.BR .gz ,
or
.BR .z ).
.TP
.B url
If the
.B url
field exists, a link (``A'' tag) is created.  The destination
of the link is the
.B url
tag's value.
The bibliography entry's title is the source of the link.
This can be used to create a link to a HTML version of the paper,
or to a version that is available by ftp.
.TP
.B postscript
If the
.B postscript
field exists, its value is used as the name of a PostScript file.
.B bib2html
creates a link to the file.
, and updates
.I htmlfile
with the number of pages and size of the PostScript file.
.TP
.B pdf
If the
.B pdf
field exists, its value is used as the name of a PDF (portable document
format) file.
.B bib2html
creates a link to the file and updates
.I htmlfile
with the size of the PDF file.
.TP
.B dvi
If the
.B dvi
field exists, its value is used as the name of a TeX DVI file.
.B bib2html
creates a link to the file and updates
.I htmlfile
with the number of pages and size of the DVI file.
.TP
.BR author , " keywords"
The full
.B author
and
.B keywords
fields of each BibTeX entry are included in
.I htmlfile
as HTML comments, and may be used by CGI scripts (such as
.BR bibsearch ,
which is supplied) to select only certain entries.
.SS Hints
.BR bib2html 's
LaTeX to HTML conversion is not very smart.
If something isn't being converted correctly, try doing it in a different way.
.P
.B bib2html
does not currently understand \fI\\verb\fR.
To get a tilde into a filename or URL, use \fI\\~{}\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Include the BibTeX file's abstract field in the bibliography.
.TP
.B \-c
Sort chronologically.  Normally, the bibliography is ordered first by
author and then by year.  With this option, the bibliography is
ordered by year and then author.
.TP
.BI \-d " delimiter"
Specify the delimiter that sets the bibliography off from the rest
of the HTML file.  The default delimiter is the name of the bibliography
file with the
.B .bib
extension stripped.
.TP
.BI \-h " heading"
Use the string
.I heading
instead of the default title when creating a new
.IR htmlfile .
If updating an existing
.IR htmlfile ,
this option is ignored.
.TP
.B -r
Reverse the chronological sorting order.  Normally, the bibliography
is sorted from the earliest entry to the latest entry.  With this
option, the order is reversed.
.TP
.BI \-s " style"
Create a
.IR style \-style
bibliography.  Supported styles are
.B empty
(the default),
.BR plain ,
.BR unsort ,
.BR alpha ,
and
.BR named .
An
.B empty
bibliography is a bulleted list.  A
.B plain
bibliography is a numbered list.
.B unsort
is like
.B plain
except that the entries in the HTML file are in the same order as
as they are in the source file.  An
.B alpha
bibliography has labels that are in the BibTeX alpha style.  A
.B named
bibliography has labels of the form [name, year].
.TP 
.B \-t
Write a timestamp with the date at which the bibliography was
updated to 
.IR htmlfile .
.TP
.B \-v
Report version number on stderr.
.TP
.B \-3
Perform some HTML 3.0 mappings.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 14
.B html-a.bst
alpha HTML BibTeX style file
.TP
.B html-n.bst
named HTML BibTeX style file
.TP
.B html-u.bst
unsort HTML BibTeX style file
.TP
.BR html-aa.bst ", " html-na.bst ", " html-ua.bst
versions of the above style files with abstracts
.TP
.B bibsearch
a CGI script for performing bibliography searches
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR perl (L),
.BR bibtex (L).
.br
.ne 8
.SH BUGS
.LP
The LaTeX to HTML translation, while decent, is not perfect.
.LP
Requires bibtex and perl.  However, I think that most
sites that would want to convert BibTeX to HTML will already
have both programs installed.
.LP
Relies on dviselect to count the number of pages in a DVI file.
.SH AUTHOR
David Hull
.RI ( hull@cs.uiuc.edu ),
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
See
.I http://pertsserver.cs.uiuc.edu/~hull/bib2html/
for the latest version.
This is free software, and may be modified or redistributed under
the terms of the GNU Public License.
